Webware cs4241 Final Project
Yao Chow
Alonso Martinez
Jacob Watson

!!!!!!WHEN VIEWING OUR PROJECT, USE HTTP, NOT HTTPS. HEROKU WILL TRY TO USE HTTPS BY DEFAULT, BUT THIS WILL CAUSE THE GRAPHS TO NOT LOAD ON THE DEGREE EVALUATION PAGE.!!!!!! 

PROJECT OUTLINE:
Project Description:
BannerWeb provides a service called a “degree evaluation” for a student’s degree completion for a specific major. Its purpose is to list all the classes taken at WPI, and displays which requirements are met with those classes. Many times, it is not very accurate as the degree evaluation does not count all of the appropriate classes for each degree requirement. In addition, it is horribly displayed, and is nothing more than text on a page.

We propose to create a more functional, stylized version of this system, specifically for the CS major, as a proof of concept. Our project will have improved functionality over the old system, and will be displayed in such a way that is appealing to the user and allows them to track their progress as they rise through their college years.

Requirements:
Server Side Programming
Our site will use a database to store data on students, what classes they’ve taken, and what requirements they have left to meet. Administrators will be able to add and remove classes and requirements. Students will be able to log in and view what classes they have taken, the requirements they need to meet, and they have registered for. The server will take requests sent from users, locate the corresponding data in the database, create a .html page that includes that information, and return it to the user. Naturally, this information will be stored behind a password, and the user will have to provide it to the server before any information is returned.
Dynamic Behavior (Javascript)
The improved version of degree evaluation will include dynamic behavior such as foldable/expandable sections for each category of requirements so you can limit what you see, a series of dynamic charts and graphs where the user can view his or her progress, and dynamic stylesheets that change color and record counts based on completion of designated courses. The javascript libraries, Canas and Imaginea, listed in references will provide us the power to incorporate interactive charts to enhance user experience. Bootstrap will handle displaying expandable/shrinkable content.
Included within this web application would be a place for administrators to add or remove degree requirements. This capability would also allow the system to adapt as new classes are added or as requirements change.

Static Web Page Content:
The new degree evaluation system will be easy and straightforward to navigate, have a pleasant color scheme, and will follow human computer interaction guidelines.
There will not be a lot of additional content; that is, there will not be a sidebar or navbar, as the page is meant to display only the course evaluation, and is a subsystem of the existing BannerWeb setup.
The system will be split into two main pages, one to display a degree evaluation, and an administration panel to add classes and degree requirements.
For the degree evaluation page, the screen will be broken into roughly thirds. The first third will consist of student information such as name, major, and year of graduation. This is for student identification.
The next third will be comprised of a series of graphs and charts to display to the user their overall progress towards completing their degree.
Lastly, all of the requirement categories will be loaded in to display details on the specific courses the student has taken and will need to take to fulfill the requirement.
The administration panel will display a list of all classes and requirements, and from there the user can select one to edit. There will also be sub menu where new requirements or classes can be added.


OVERVIEW:
Our application is spread over three main pages. The first one, located at index.html, is the front end of the application, and is the only one that students would need to see. From that page, one can select a student from the navigation drop down menu to view their degree requirement page. On each requirement page is a series of charts, powered by the uvcharts package. The donut chart shows how many requirements the user has completed out of the total number of requirements, and the bar chart breaks it down by requirement to show how many classes have been completed for each requirement. Below the charts are boxes displaying the actual requirements. Each box has the name of the requirement at the top. Next to it is a count of how many classes have been taken out of the total number of classes that need to be taken to complete that requirement. The symbol next to the count changes from an x mark to a check mark depending on if the requirement has been completed or not. Within each box is a list of all the classes the student has taken for that requirement, along with the grade they have received for it. The boxes displayed on this page, as well as the contents of the charts, will change depending on the student data provided from the server. In other words, the page can adapt automatically to students with customized requirements, it isn't fixed for just standard CS majors.
The second page of the application is the "Degree Administration Panel," at "admin.html". From here one can create new degree requirements and delete existing ones. Using the "add degree requirement" button, one can create new requirements or add classes to existing ones. To add a requirement, hit "add degree requirement". Once on the menu, hit the plus next to "Degree Requirements". This causes the page to load all of the existing requirements from the server. From here, one can click the plus next to any of the requirements names to add a new class to that requirement. When the button is clicked, a new class id and name field will appear within that requirement. Type the class name and ID into those boxes, repeat these steps for any other classes, and hit submit. To add a custom requirement, simply hit the plus next to "Degree Requirements" and a dialog box will appear asking you for the name of the new requirement. That requirement will then be added into the list and can have classes added to it like the rest. To delete a requirement that has already been submitted to the server, hit the "Delete requirement" button. A dialog box will appear, and from there you can type the name of the requirement to delete.
The requirements you create will be used as a template for any new students. New students can be created from the "Student Administration Panel" at "studentAdmin.html". This panel takes the place of BannerWeb in our demonstration. If this system was to be used for real, BannerWeb would replace this and the server side storage system. From here you can choose "Delete Student" to see a drop down menu of all students that currently exist, and delete them from the system. From the "Add Student" menu you can add a new student to the system. When you attempt to add a new student, the page loads in the current requirement template made in the Degree Administration Panel, and uses it to dynamically change the menu. The classes section will adapt to have a subsection for each existing requirement, and each requirement subsection will have a two drop down menus for each class needed to complete the requirement. From these dropdown menus you can choose any class under that requirement, and assign a grade for that class. You can also give the student a name, graduation year, degree, level, starting year, and major. Hitting submit will save this student to the server, and they then can be viewed on the degree evaluation page, or deleted using "Delete Student".
